README.md, before:

# 2D Tech Wheel

> A modern, customizable 2D spinning wheel built with Three.js and a physics-based spin controller. Features tech-themed segments with smooth animations, LED effects, and confetti celebrations.

![Spinning Wheel Demo](./visual.png)

---

## Features

- **Tech-Themed Segments**: 8 programming languages and technologies (JavaScript, Python, TypeScript, React, Node.js, Go, Rust, Swift)
- **Physics-Based Spinning**: Custom spin controller with realistic deceleration and momentum
- **LED Rim Effects**: Animated LED lights around the wheel perimeter with pulsing colors
- **Confetti System**: Particle-based confetti celebration when the wheel stops
- **Smooth Animations**: 60fps rendering with optimized Three.js performance
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to different screen sizes and orientations
- **Customizable**: Easy to modify segments, colors, and wheel configuration
- **Modern Architecture**: Clean ES6+ modules with separation of concerns

---

## Technologies Used

- **Graphics**: [Three.js](https://threejs.org/) - 3D graphics library for WebGL
- **Physics**: Custom physics-based spin controller with realistic deceleration
- **Particle Effects**: Custom confetti system using Three.js geometries
- **Module System**: Native ES6 modules with modern import/export syntax
- **Code Quality**: ESLint with modern rules, Prettier for formatting

---

## Code Architecture

The project follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[main.js] --> B[Wheel Component]
    A --> C[SpinController]
    A --> D[ConfettiSystem]
    A --> E[Scene Config]

    B --> F[Wheel Geometry]
    B --> G[LED Lights]
    B --> H[Pointer]
    B --> I[Text Labels]

    C --> J[Physics Engine]
    C --> K[Animation Loop]

    D --> L[Particle System]
    D --> M[Confetti Particles]

    N[Utils] --> O[Crypto Utils]
    N --> P[Math Utils]

    Q[Config] --> R[Constants]
    Q --> S[Wheel Config]
    Q --> T[Physics Config]
    Q --> U[Scene Config]

    B --> N
    C --> N
    D --> N
    A --> Q

    E --> M[WebGL Renderer]
    F --> N[Segment Colors]
    F --> O[Tech Labels]

    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style B fill:#f3e5f5
    style C fill:#e8f5e8
    style D fill:#fff3e0
```

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- A modern web browser that supports WebGL and ES Modules

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/2d-tech-wheel.git
   cd 2d-tech-wheel
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

### Running the Project

1. **Start the development server:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   This will start a live server on `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and automatically open your browser.

2. **Alternative - Manual server:**
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
   Then manually navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` in your browser.

---

## Code Quality Checks

The project ships with automated quality tooling to keep the codebase consistent and secure:

- `npm run lint:ci` — ESLint (flat config) with modern rules from Unicorn, SonarJS, Security, Import-X, and more, failing on any warning.
- `npm run format:check` — Prettier validation across JS/JSON/HTML/CSS/Markdown/YAML files.
- `npm run test:ci` — Run Jest tests with coverage in CI mode.
- `npm run audit:ci` — `npm audit --omit dev --audit-level=moderate` to surface vulnerable runtime dependencies.
- `npm run check:quality` — Convenience task that runs all of the above sequentially.

### Pre-commit Hooks

The project uses Husky and lint-staged to automatically run quality checks before each commit:
- ESLint with auto-fix on staged JavaScript files
- Prettier formatting on all staged files
- Jest tests for changed test files

Install hooks after cloning: `npm install` (runs `npm run prepare` automatically)

These commands execute in CI for Node 18 and Node 20 to guarantee cross-version compatibility.

---

## Testing

The project includes comprehensive unit tests using Jest:

```bash
npm test          # Run tests with coverage
npm run test:watch # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:ci   # Run tests in CI mode
```

Tests cover:
- Utility functions (crypto, math helpers)
- Spin controller physics logic
- Repository-level anti-pattern detection (no emojis, no empty catch blocks)

Test files are located alongside their source code in `__tests__` directories.

---

## How to Customize

Customizing the wheel is easy! All the main configuration is located in `src/components/Wheel.js`.

### Changing Wheel Segments (Tech Labels and Colors)

1. **Open `src/components/Wheel.js`**.
2. Find the `segments` array in the constructor configuration:

   ```javascript
   segments: [
     { label: 'JavaScript', color: 0x3498db },
     { label: 'Python', color: 0x2ecc71 },
     { label: 'TypeScript', color: 0x9b59b6 },
     { label: 'React', color: 0xe74c3c },
     { label: 'Node.js', color: 0x1abc9c },
     { label: 'Go', color: 0x34495e },
     { label: 'Rust', color: 0xf39c12 },
     { label: 'Swift', color: 0x27ae60 },
   ];
   ```

3. **To change the tech labels**, edit the `label` property of each segment object.
4. **To change the colors**, edit the `color` property using hex values (e.g., `0x3498db` for blue).
5. **To add/remove segments**, simply add or remove objects from the array. The wheel will automatically adjust to the new number of segments.

### Customizing LED Effects

You can modify the LED rim effects by changing these properties in the Wheel constructor:

```javascript
ledCount: 16,           // Number of LED lights
ledRadius: 3.7,         // Distance from center
ledSize: 0.08,          // Size of each LED
ledColors: [0xff0000, 0x00ff00, 0x0000ff, 0xffff00, 0xff00ff, 0x00ffff]
```

---

## Code Consolidation & Improvements

The codebase has been recently consolidated and optimized for better maintainability:

### **Shared Utilities**

- **Crypto Utils** (`src/utils/crypto.js`): Centralized secure random number generation
- **Math Utils** (`src/utils/math.js`): Common mathematical functions and constants
- **Consolidated Exports** (`src/utils/index.js`): Single import point for all utilities

### **Configuration Management**

- **Constants** (`src/config/constants.js`): All configuration values centralized
- **Wheel Config**: Segment definitions, colors, and geometry settings
- **Physics Config**: Spin controller parameters and thresholds
- **Scene Config**: Three.js scene, lighting, and camera settings
- **Effects Config**: Confetti and LED animation parameters

### **Benefits**

- **DRY Principle**: Eliminated duplicate code across components
- **Maintainability**: Single source of truth for all configuration
- **Type Safety**: Consistent parameter usage across the application
- **Performance**: Optimized imports and reduced bundle size
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new features or modify existing ones

### **New File Structure**

```
src/
├── components/          # UI components
│   └── Wheel.js        # Main wheel component
├── controllers/         # Business logic
│   └── SpinController.js # Physics and spin logic
├── effects/            # Visual effects
│   └── ConfettiSystem.js # Particle effects
├── utils/              # Shared utilities
│   ├── crypto.js       # Cryptographic functions
│   ├── math.js         # Mathematical utilities
│   └── index.js        # Consolidated exports
├── config/             # Configuration
│   └── constants.js    # All app constants
└── main.js             # Application entry point
```

---

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── main.js                 # Entry point and scene setup
├── components/
│   └── Wheel.js           # Main wheel component with segments and LEDs
├── controllers/
│   └── SpinController.js  # Physics-based spinning logic
└── effects/
    └── ConfettiSystem.js  # Particle system for celebrations
```

## Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/your-username/2d-tech-wheel/issues).

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code style, development workflow, and testing requirements.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

Commit message:

Implement Phase 1 & 2 improvements: infrastructure and code quality
Phase 1 - Critical Infrastructure:
- Fix broken segment result display with animated UI
- Add cooldown timer with visual countdown
- Fix getCurrentSegment() to return color property
- Update README to reflect Halloween theme
- Add 'dev' script to package.json
- Add configuration validation with JSDoc type hints

Phase 2 - Code Quality:
- Extract magic numbers to WheelConstants.js
- Add comprehensive comments explaining complex logic
- Document angle normalization in getCurrentSegment()
- Document LED pulsing algorithm
- Add explanatory comments for sprite rotation
- Add JSDoc documentation throughout

Phase 3 (Partial) - Visual Enhancements:
- Enhance confetti to use winning segment colors
- Add easing utility functions for smooth animations
- Import easing into SpinController for future use
- Prepare infrastructure for camera effects

All critical bugs fixed, code is well-documented and maintainable.

README.md, after:

# Halloween Decision Wheel

> A spooky, customizable 2D spinning wheel built with Three.js and a physics-based spin controller. Features Halloween-themed segments with smooth animations, LED effects, and confetti celebrations.

![Spinning Wheel Demo](./visual.png)

---

## Features

- **Halloween-Themed Segments**: 8 spooky activities (Haunted House, Pumpkin Patch, Witch's Brew, Ghost Town, Blood Moon, Candy Corn, Black Cat, Graveyard)
- **Winner Display**: Animated result card that shows the winning segment with matching colors
- **Cooldown Timer**: Visual countdown showing when you can spin again
- **Physics-Based Spinning**: Custom spin controller with realistic deceleration and momentum
- **LED Rim Effects**: Animated LED lights around the wheel perimeter with pulsing Halloween colors
- **Confetti System**: Particle-based confetti celebration when the wheel stops
- **Smooth Animations**: 60fps rendering with optimized Three.js performance
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to different screen sizes and orientations
- **Customizable**: Easy to modify segments, colors, and wheel configuration
- **Modern Architecture**: Clean ES6+ modules with separation of concerns

---

## Technologies Used

- **Graphics**: [Three.js](https://threejs.org/) - 3D graphics library for WebGL
- **Physics**: Custom physics-based spin controller with realistic deceleration
- **Particle Effects**: Custom confetti system using Three.js geometries
- **Module System**: Native ES6 modules with modern import/export syntax
- **Code Quality**: ESLint with modern rules, Prettier for formatting

---

## Code Architecture

The project follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[main.js] --> B[Wheel Component]
    A --> C[SpinController]
    A --> D[ConfettiSystem]
    A --> E[Scene Config]

    B --> F[Wheel Geometry]
    B --> G[LED Lights]
    B --> H[Pointer]
    B --> I[Text Labels]

    C --> J[Physics Engine]
    C --> K[Animation Loop]

    D --> L[Particle System]
    D --> M[Confetti Particles]

    N[Utils] --> O[Crypto Utils]
    N --> P[Math Utils]

    Q[Config] --> R[Constants]
    Q --> S[Wheel Config]
    Q --> T[Physics Config]
    Q --> U[Scene Config]

    B --> N
    C --> N
    D --> N
    A --> Q

    E --> M[WebGL Renderer]
    F --> N[Segment Colors]
    F --> O[Tech Labels]

    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style B fill:#f3e5f5
    style C fill:#e8f5e8
    style D fill:#fff3e0
```

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- A modern web browser that supports WebGL and ES Modules

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/2d-tech-wheel.git
   cd 2d-tech-wheel
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

### Running the Project

1. **Start the development server:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   This will start a live server on `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and automatically open your browser.

2. **Alternative - Manual server:**
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
   Then manually navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` in your browser.

---

## Code Quality Checks

The project ships with automated quality tooling to keep the codebase consistent and secure:

- `npm run lint:ci` — ESLint (flat config) with modern rules from Unicorn, SonarJS, Security, Import-X, and more, failing on any warning.
- `npm run format:check` — Prettier validation across JS/JSON/HTML/CSS/Markdown/YAML files.
- `npm run test:ci` — Run Jest tests with coverage in CI mode.
- `npm run audit:ci` — `npm audit --omit dev --audit-level=moderate` to surface vulnerable runtime dependencies.
- `npm run check:quality` — Convenience task that runs all of the above sequentially.

### Pre-commit Hooks

The project uses Husky and lint-staged to automatically run quality checks before each commit:
- ESLint with auto-fix on staged JavaScript files
- Prettier formatting on all staged files
- Jest tests for changed test files

Install hooks after cloning: `npm install` (runs `npm run prepare` automatically)

These commands execute in CI for Node 18 and Node 20 to guarantee cross-version compatibility.

---

## Testing

The project includes comprehensive unit tests using Jest:

```bash
npm test          # Run tests with coverage
npm run test:watch # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:ci   # Run tests in CI mode
```

Tests cover:
- Utility functions (crypto, math helpers)
- Spin controller physics logic
- Repository-level anti-pattern detection (no emojis, no empty catch blocks)

Test files are located alongside their source code in `__tests__` directories.

---

## How to Customize

Customizing the wheel is easy! All the main configuration is located in `src/config/appConfig.js`.

### Changing Wheel Segments (Labels and Colors)

1. **Open `src/config/appConfig.js`**.
2. Find the `WHEEL_SEGMENTS` array at the top of the file:

   ```javascript
   const WHEEL_SEGMENTS = [
     { label: "Haunted House", color: 0x1a0a00 },
     { label: "Pumpkin Patch", color: 0xff6600 },
     { label: "Witch's Brew", color: 0x4b0082 },
     { label: "Ghost Town", color: 0xcccccc },
     { label: "Blood Moon", color: 0x8b0000 },
     { label: "Candy Corn", color: 0xffa500 },
     { label: "Black Cat", color: 0x0a0a0a },
     { label: "Graveyard", color: 0x2f4f2f },
   ];
   ```

3. **To change the labels**, edit the `label` property of each segment object.
4. **To change the colors**, edit the `color` property using hex values (e.g., `0xff6600` for orange).
5. **To add/remove segments**, simply add or remove objects from the array. The wheel will automatically adjust to the new number of segments.

### Customizing LED Effects

You can modify the LED rim effects in `src/config/appConfig.js` by changing the `LED_CONFIG` object:

```javascript
const LED_CONFIG = {
  ledCount: 16,                                             // Number of LED lights
  ledRadius: 3.7,                                           // Distance from center
  ledSize: 0.08,                                            // Size of each LED
  ledColors: [0xff6600, 0xff4500, 0xff8c00, 0xffa500],    // Halloween orange colors
};
```

---

## Code Consolidation & Improvements

The codebase has been recently consolidated and optimized for better maintainability:

### **Shared Utilities**

- **Crypto Utils** (`src/utils/crypto.js`): Centralized secure random number generation
- **Math Utils** (`src/utils/math.js`): Common mathematical functions and constants
- **Consolidated Exports** (`src/utils/index.js`): Single import point for all utilities

### **Configuration Management**

- **Constants** (`src/config/constants.js`): All configuration values centralized
- **Wheel Config**: Segment definitions, colors, and geometry settings
- **Physics Config**: Spin controller parameters and thresholds
- **Scene Config**: Three.js scene, lighting, and camera settings
- **Effects Config**: Confetti and LED animation parameters

### **Benefits**

- **DRY Principle**: Eliminated duplicate code across components
- **Maintainability**: Single source of truth for all configuration
- **Type Safety**: Consistent parameter usage across the application
- **Performance**: Optimized imports and reduced bundle size
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new features or modify existing ones

### **New File Structure**

```
src/
├── components/          # UI components
│   └── Wheel.js        # Main wheel component
├── controllers/         # Business logic
│   └── SpinController.js # Physics and spin logic
├── effects/            # Visual effects
│   └── ConfettiSystem.js # Particle effects
├── utils/              # Shared utilities
│   ├── crypto.js       # Cryptographic functions
│   ├── math.js         # Mathematical utilities
│   └── index.js        # Consolidated exports
├── config/             # Configuration
│   └── constants.js    # All app constants
└── main.js             # Application entry point
```

---

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── main.js                 # Entry point and scene setup
├── components/
│   └── Wheel.js           # Main wheel component with segments and LEDs
├── controllers/
│   └── SpinController.js  # Physics-based spinning logic
└── effects/
    └── ConfettiSystem.js  # Particle system for celebrations
```

## Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/your-username/2d-tech-wheel/issues).

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code style, development workflow, and testing requirements.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.
